Karen J. Dalton (July 19, 1937 – March 19, 1993) was an American folk blues singer, guitarist, and banjo player. She was associated with the early 1960s Greenwich Village folk music scene, particularly with Fred Neil, and Bob Dylan. Although she enjoyed little commercial success during her lifetime.

Dalton was born in Bonham, Texas, but was raised in Enid, Oklahoma. She also lived in Stillwater, Oklahoma and Lawrence, Kansas. Her heritage was half Cherokee and half Irish. With two divorces behind her at the age of 21, Dalton left Oklahoma and arrived in Greenwich Village, New York City in the early 1960s. She brought her twelve string guitar, long-neck banjo, and at least one of her two children with her. According to her daughter Abralyn Baird, at that point Dalton had lost two of her bottom teeth breaking up a fight between two of her boyfriends.

Dalton quickly became entrenched in the Greenwich Village folk musical scene of the 1960s. She played alongside big names of the time, including Bob Dylan (who occasionally backed her up on harmonica), Fred Neil, Richard Tucker, and Tim Hardin. She covered many of their songs in her own performances. 
Dalton was a regular at famous folk venue Café Wha? and performed at benefit concerts for civil rights groups. She was a reluctant performer and refused to perform her own songs. Combined with her use of alcohol and heroin, recording her music and touring was particularly hard. Dalton was "not interested in playing the music industry's games in an era when musicians had little other choice," as bass player and producer Harvey Brooks noted. She often responded in anger when producers attempted to change her music while recording. 

At first, producer Nik Venet was unsuccessful in recording her first album, It's So Hard to Tell Who's Going to Love You the Best (1969). It wasn't until he invited Fred Neil to a session that they were able to come away with recordings. Even then, Venet and Neil were only successful by tricking Dalton into thinking the tape wasn't rolling. Dalton cut most of the tracks with one take, and all in one night. (Continued in comments)
