"When a woman loves a man who is ugly she hugs him tighter, with ten times as much zest"

I have been frequently fascinated with the 13-year-long relationship between Serge Gainsbourg and Jane Birkin. 

Their relationship began in 1968 after meeting on the set of the film 'Slogan', after the recording was finished he requested that she record a song with him, and she suggested 'Je t'aime... moi non plus', a song he had written for his previous lover, Brigitte Bardot.
"Je t'aime... moi non plus" was an erotic song, based on a story of words said between two lovers during sex, with the whole implication and meaning that sexual intimacy is not enough, and therefore meaningless. Serge called it an 'antifuck' song. 
During recording Jane got carried away with 'her light moaning' and got chastised, stopping mid-breath, which can be heard on the recording. Because of this, it was believed the song involved a recording of 'live sex', Serge replied to these rumors by saying that if this was so he would have chosen to record a full length LP instead. And from then on she was his muse, singing his songs, appearing in his movies. 

Jane was largely insecure for the entirety of their relationship, seeing herself as talentless, without depth, and pretty much only a pretty face. Claiming that despite Serge's ugly looks, he was the greatest mind alive. Still, he was 18 years her Senior. In the early days of their relationship, he could go months without bathing, and she went as far as to swim through a dirty canal simply to grab his attention. She claimed there was no logic to her love for him, that she couldn't control herself around him, and that she wasn't bothered by others seeing him as ugly, because it meant she could have him to herself totally. They never married but they had a daughter, Charlotte. After about nine years of their relationship Serge took drinking more seriously, and their relationship began to struggle.

In 1980 they split, and in 1991 Serge died due to complications related to his alcoholism. They had maintained a close relationship even up to that point, Jane still holds to this day that he was her one true love.
