What are the nine ranks of Angels? 

the Orthodox Christian Church teaches the existence of three separate hierarchies of Angels, with each having three classes, with a total of nine ranks. St John Chrystom, the Golden Mouth, says that these nine are merely the ones explained and revealed to us through the prophets and scriptures 'in this life', and that many many more are possible. Due to this, the ranks of celestial beings is not considered canon or dogma, but open to personal understandings for the most part, still we operate with the following ideas.

The First and Highest Hiearchy holds:
The Seraphim, or the 'Fiery Ones' the closest to God, who because of this proximity glow with fire (the name means 'Flaming' in Hebrew). They are burning with their love for God and work to kindle that love in others. The have six wings.
The Cherubim, a name meaning 'great understanding' or 'effusion of wisdom' in Hebrew. They are also six winged, and many eyed. Radient with divine wisdom and knowledge, they bestow their enlightenment down to others. They use two wings to cover their feet, two to cover their face, and two to fly. 
The Thrones, or Ophanim, also referred to as the 'many-eyed ones'. They are the wheels of God's chariots, said to be wheels within wheels, covered with an infinity of all-seeing eyes. 

The three highest ranks of Celestial Creations are sometimes called the 'sleepless ones.'

The Second Hiearchy:
The Powers, are so named because they have power over the evil one and the ability to restrain demons and fallen angels.They also give us their strength when we need it for spiritual struggles or labors
The Dominions are so named because, as St. Dionysius the Areopagite says, they voluntarily and with joy serve God unceasingly. They also send down power for prudent governing and wise management to authorities on the earth set up by God. Further they teach how to control the senses, how to subdue in oneself dissolute desires and passions, how to enslave the flesh to the spirit, and how to rule over one's will and be above all temptations.
(Continued in comments)
