Folie à deux is a rare disorder which causes delusions of one individual to transfer into another. One case of the disorder is that of Ursula and Sabina Eriksson, who are Swedish twin sisters, born in 1967. On 17 May, 2008, they traveled to Liverpool and were kicked off a bus because of their bizarre behavior. They then decided to walk down the motorway, disrupting traffic. Police were called to the scene.

“We say in Sweden that an accident rarely comes alone. Usually at least one more follows – maybe two,” Sabina cryptically said to one of the arriving officers. Suddenly, Ursuala ran out into the oncoming traffic of the motorway and her sister followed. Both were hit by cars but survive. Both were taken to hospital, where Ursula had to remain for a few weeks, while Sabina was sent to police custody.

On 19 May, 2008, two men, Glen Hollinshead and Peter Molloy, saw Sabina walking her dog in Fenton. They stopped and chatted with her and she appeared to be friendly but extremely paranoid. She was asking the men for directions to a B&B and explained she was trying to find her sister. Glen offered her a room at his own home which she accepted. When they arrived at his home,  she offered the men cigarettes and then snatched them out of their mouths, claiming they were poisoned, and she continually looked out the window as if perplexed.

Peter left the home that night and Sabina and Glen went to sleep. The following day, Glen called the hospital in an attempt to locate Sabina’s sister. In the evening, he went to a neighbor’s home to ask him for some tea bags before going back inside his own home. Moments later, the neighbor saw Glen staggering outside, saying “she stabbed me,” and then falling to the ground, dead. Sabina fled the house with a hammer.

 A motorist witnessed Sabina hitting herself on the head with the hammer and attempted to intervene but then she turned on him and struck him. The police had been called by Glen’s neighbor and a chase ensued. The chase came to an end when Sabina jumped from a 40 ft bridge and was taken to the hospital.

After being discharged from the hospital, she plead guilty to manslaughter.
