Edward Paul Abbey (January 29, 1927 – March 14, 1989), was an American author, essayist, park ranger, and environmental activist best known for criticism of public land policies, and his writings.
Abbey was born in Indiana, Pennsylvania, in 1945 he graduated from highschool. Eight months prior to his 18th birthday, in which he would be faced with the draft, he decided he wanted to explore the American southwest.  He traveled by foot, bus, hitchhiking, and freight train hopping. During this trip, he fell in love with the desert country of the Four Corners region.  Abbey wrote: "...crags and pinnacles of naked rock, the dark cores of ancient volcanoes, a vast and silent emptiness smoldering with heat, color, and indecipherable significance, above which floated a small number of pure, clear, hard-edged clouds. For the first time, I felt I was getting close to the West of my deepest imaginings, the place where the tangible and the mythical became the same."

After a few years of serving and being honorably discharged, Abbey returned to study philosophy and receive an M.D from the University of Arizona in 1956.  While an undergraduate, Abbey was the editor of a student newspaper in which he published an article titled "Some Implications of Anarchy". University officials seized all of the copies of the issue and removed Abbey from the editorship of the paper.
 Throught the 50s and 60s he worked at various national parks and published his essays and books, this influenced his first non-fiction book: Desert Solitaire.
He was well known for his anti-immigration ("legal or illegal, from any source" )  and strong ecological status. Refering to constructions like the Hoover Dam to be "Monuments of decay" and holding dismaying attitudes towards people's attachments to technology. He is well known for influencing ecological sabotage groups such as Earth First! and bringing popularity to monkey-wrenching.

At the age of 62, in his home is Tucson, Arizona, Abbey passed away, he was buried by his close friends in one of his sleeping bags at his request to disregard any state laws and for his body to be used to nourish the Earth, only marked by a stone saying 'No Comment'
