Hunter S Thompson's "Freak Power" campaign for the position of Sheriff in Aspen, Colorado. 1970.
Campaign headquarters was simply a table at a local tavern, which anyone and everyone could walk in and see with total transparency what Thomson and his supporters planned to do. 
His campaign ran on six key principles:
"1:Sod the streets at once. Rip up  all the streets with jack hammers and use the junk asphalt (after  melting) to create a huge parking lot and auto-storage lot on the  outskirts of town.
2:Change  the name "Aspen" by public referendum to "Fat City." This would prevent  greedheads, land-rapers and other human jackals from capitalizing on the  name "Aspen."
3:Drug sales  must be controlled. My first act as Sheriff will be to install, on the  courthouse lawn, a bastinado platform and a set of stocks—in order to  punish dishonest dope dealers in a proper public fashion.
4:Hunting  and fishing should be forbidden to all non-residents, with the  exception of those who can obtain the signed endorsement of a  resident—who will then be legally responsible for any violation or abuse  committed by the non-resident he has "signed for."
5:The  Sheriff and his Deputies should never be armed in public. Every urban  riot, shoot-out and blood-bath (involving guns) in recent memory has  been set off by some trigger-happy cop in a fear frenzy.
6:It  will be the policy of the Sheriff's office savagely to harass all those  engaged in any form of land-rape. This will be done by acting, with  utmost dispatch, on any and all righteous complaints."

Hunter shaved his head, that way he could refer to his opponent, who had a buzz cut, as "my long-haired opponent" 
The Republican and Democratic opposition were so scared that they solidated their parties into a "non-thompson" group simply to ensure that he didn't win. 
His thinking was that if he could win 35 to 45% of the votes, considering the typical Democratic and Republican split he could win a plurality, unfortunately he published this plan in Rolling Stone and they acted to stop him. A moment of transparency that he deeply regretted. 
In the end he lost by five votes.
