Happy birthday Viktor Tsoi, who would have been 61 today. 
Viktor, he was the child of a Russian school teacher and a Soviet-Korean engineer. 
He began writing songs in his teenage years, while rock was majorly in the underground scene limited to Leningrad, meaning for any success they would need to compete with the Moscow pop stars that were funded by the government. 

In the early '80s the band Kino was formed by Tsoi and some fellow like-minded musicians. Mostly limited to sketchy reel-to-reel tapes that were dispersed by hand, Kino didn't have a single commercial album until '46', although the band didn't see true mainstream success until 1985 with the release of "Night" and the single "Mother Anarchy."
In 1987 they released "Groupa Kroovy", which sparked something now known as "Kinomania." The album, rich with political messaging, was so popular that even people in remote regions of the Soviet Union would translate the lyrics of the songs to share with others. At this point members of the band would appear in movies such as "The Needle," with Tsoi even traveling as far as the United States to support these films at festivals. At this point he still worked at a boiler plant and lived in an apartment in the factory, a fact that surprised many people at the time. 
On 15 August 1990, in Latvia, Tsoi was driving on the Sloka – Talsi highway, near Tukums and Riga, returning from a fishing trip. At 12:28 p.m., Tsoi died in a car collision. The investigation concluded that Tsoi had fallen asleep while driving, possibly due to fatigue; he had not consumed alcohol for at least 48 hours before his death. At the time he fell asleep Tsoi was driving at a speed of at least 130 km/h, causing his dark blue Moskvitch-2141 to turn into the oncoming lane and collide with an Ikarus 250 bus. Tsoi was pronounced dead at the scene. The bus driver was not injured. Tsoi's car was completely destroyed to the point that one of its tires was never found.
In his car he had the only tape for an album ("The Black Album/KINO") that was yet to be released, thankfully it was left unscathed.
