Ernesto García "The Chango" Cabral ( 18 December 1890 – 8 August 1968) was a Mexican cartoonist and painter, famous for his contributions as caricatures to the publication Revista de Revistas; his catalog numbers almost 25,000 pieces. 

García Cabral was also an expert tango dancer, Greco-Romano wrestler, and pioneer of silent film. He was extremely social and knew famous personalities of his period including Enrico Caruso, Walt Disney, Charles Lindbergh, Delores Del Rio, and Mario Moreno (Also known as "Cantinflas").

Born in Huatusco, Veracruz, García Cabral's first known work appeared in a newspaper in 1900. Because of his talent, he taught drawing at his school from the age of 12 years. 

In December 1906 Huatusco mayor Joaquín Castro, wrote the governor of Veracruz, Teodoro A. Dehesa, seeking a scholarship for García Cabral, which once granted allowed him to enter the Academy of San Carlos, where he studied with Germán Gedovius, at the time an El Mundo Ilustrado [es] collaborator, and there García Cabral discovered classicism, as well as through the foreign currents that arrived in imported magazines. He began his professional career in 1909, as illustrator and caricaturist at The Tarantula, run at the time by Fortunato Herrerías, who later became one of his best friends.

In 1918, Ernesto García Cabral devoted himself to working with colours and shortly afterwards worked as a caricaturist for Novelties, Thursday of Excélsior and Fufurufu, in addition to the magazine Fantoche. However it is his work as illustrator of covers for the publication of Magazine of Magazines the one who awarded him deserved fame, giving to know his innovative and fluent style that helped to enter the Art Deco to the American continent.

Eventually he would collaborate likewise for the magazines Today, Revista de Revistas, Ferronales, Icarus and Socrates among others. Winning in 1961 of the prize Mergenthaler conceded by the Inter-American Society of Press, the Chango Cabral died in Mexico City on 8 August 1968.

#artdeco #mexicanart #ErnestoGarcíaCabra #thechango
#cartoonist #latinart #hispanicartist #cartoon #comic #20s #mexicanrevolution #watercolor
