David Hahn , also known as the 'Nuclear Boy Scout', was an American nuclear radiation enthusiast and paranoid schizophrenic. 
An active member of his local Boy Scout troop, Hanh was inspired by 'The Golden Book of Chemistry Experiments' to experiment independently and collect samples of every element on the Periodic Table, including the radioactive ones. He received a merit badge in Atomic Energy and soon became obsessed with the idea of building a breeder reactor on his property. 
At age seventeen, over a long period of time, he collected minute pieces of radioactive material from everyday objects, americium from smoke detectors, radium from clocks, tritium from gun sights, and thorium from camping lanterns. 
He used a carved-out brick of lead, thousands of dollars worth of lithium from batteries and a Bunsen burner to purify Thorium ash. 
After moderate and dangerous success Hahn began to dismantle his project out of alarm for his safety but by chance, local police discovered the project. Soon the FBI was involved and the land, belonging to his mother, was confiscated by the EPA, noting it as a hazardous materials cleanup site and dismantled and buried the rest of the shed underground.
Unknown at the time, the majority of the radioactive material had been disposed of in commercial garbage by Hahn's mother out of fear of the consequence of losing her home. 
Despite frequent suggestions, Hahn refused to be evaluated for radiation exposure and fell into a deep depression after the scandal, a sorrow also fueled by his mother's suicide and being dumped by his then-girlfriend. 

In 2007 the FBI was given a tip that Hahn had built another nuclear reactor, this time in his freezer, but Hahn claimed to have no radioactive materials. The FBI only had a personal interview with him over his diagnosis as a Paranoid Schizophrenic, his service in the navy, and other topics. Hanh also claimed to have been followed by people who could 'shock his genitals with their minds'. He was later arrested for stealing fire alarms from his apartment building, admitting he was collecting the Americium in them. 

He died of an overdose at the age of 39 in September 2016.
