The mysterious but aptly named French female duo Deux Filles has been wreathed by tragedy and mystery. Gemini Forque and Claudine Coule met as teenagers in Lourdes, during which Coule's mother fell to an incurable lung ailment while searching for a doctor's help. Four days after Gemini's parents died in a horrific auto accident. With Claudine's father having disappeared when she was nine, the two bonded over their shared agonies and worked through their melancholy with their art and music. Unexpectedly, after releasing a pair of critically acclaimed albums of abstract and experimental music, then playing throughout Europe and North America, they disappeared during a trip to Algiers in 1984, where Gemini had lived from birth to the age of five.

Save for a letter purportedly written by Coule which says that the pair had journeyed to India on a spiritual quest, only to meet with further hardships, nothing else has come to bring us closure. Indeed the short and sad lives of the two girls are at the root of a small yet dedicated cult following that the strange duo have gained since their disappearance, not least because the placid, largely instrumental music on both albums betrays no hint of the sorrow that framed their lives.

In truth, Deux Filles was created by Simon Fisher Turner, a former teen idol, and songwriter/technician Colin Lloyd Tucker. Turner claims that the idea of Deux Filles came to him in a dream, and the novel fiction/roleplay would be strictly maintained throughout the girls' short career. As well as posing in costume for the album covers, the duo even performed live without the audience realizing that the girls on stage were two men from South London. They were so credible that the audience truly thought it was a show by two French girls. Around that time they also went out on the streets shopping or went to pubs dressed up as their characters, interacting with fans and regular people. They identified so much that in the studio Simon tried to make his voice sound how one of the two girls would have sounded.

In 1983 they dropped the idea and began different projects eventually resurrecting Deux Filles in 2016 to create new music.
