"If elected he will not serve!": The Unabomber for President vote-in campaign of 1996. 
The campaign was started in Boston by Lydia Eccles and Chris Korda, founder of the Church Of Euthanasia, both inspired by a woeful truth that the message of the Unabomber concerned "The Fate of all mankind." 

From an old website:
"The Unabomber for President Campaign was launched in Boston in September 1995 by Lydia Eccles and Chris Korda. In February 1996, the UNAPACK (the Unabomber for President Political Action Committee) attracted the interest of one Radio Free Al, who went on to write several stories about it in The Boston Phoenix. It was RFA who, while visiting NYC in July 1996, introduced us to the UNAPACK, its delightful array of bumper stickers and fliers, and its website, which has been up since March 1996 and updated many times since then (the last update took place on 23 Sept 1996). NOT BORED! opened a New York City office of UNAPACK in early August 1996. Since then, UNPACK NYC has been very active:

1. It hath caused to be printed and distributed more than 5,000 copies of the flyer headlined CRASH THE PARTIES, which announced the opening of its office. Most of these fliers were stuffed into unsuspecting copies of The Village Voice and The New York Free Press, both of which are distributed for free in Manhattan.

2. It hath caused to be printed and distributed approximately 1,000 copies of the flyer headlined WHY WE ARE NOT VOTING GREEN OR SOCIALIST, which was designed for Little Billy not de Bored's appearance at the "progressive" forum at the NY Society for Ethical Culture (held 26 Sept 1996), which featured remarks by Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader.

3. It hath raised a 6-foot-wide and 60-foot-long banner proclaiming UNABOMBER FOR PRESIDENT (in international day-glo orange!) on the top of the abandoned grain elevator in Red Hook, Brooklyn. This banner remained in place for four days.

4. It hath caused to be printed and distributed 200 copies of the clandestine bilingual pamphlet entitled WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND WHY, translated into Spanish by R. Buono, which was designed to explain the choice of the grain elevator as the place for the banner."
