Nuclear Photography by Kenji Higuchi.

Higuchi is a professor of photography known for his work depicting nuclear reactor workers. In 1977 he was granted access to the Tsuruga Nuclear Plant and was the first photographer to uncover working in one of Japan's reactors.

Japan's history with nuclear energy began in 1966 with the opening of the first reactor, with plants being built in rural and coastal towns with the aid of government pressure and financial incentives.
Historically, poor oversight and negligence would be the cause of most of Japan's nuclear reactor accidents and disasters. Power companies have a long history of conspiring with the government to manipulate public opinion in favor of nuclear energy. Going as far as to even send employees undercover to public meetings to speak favorably.
Since the 2011 Fukushima Accident public support has fallen and Japan has gone from 30% of its power being nuclear to sometimes having no plants in use. Today, the government wants to reopen and rebuild safer plants.

All of these photos were scanned from a 2013 book of his work and many have never been digitized before.

1: Workers wear heavy equipment and masks to avoid breathing in the radioactive material. However, workers are forced to work without masks because they find it difficult to breathe and the full-face masks fog up, making it difficult to see in front of them. Here is a man wearing a full-face mask. 1977
2: The core's entrance during a periodic inspection. Workers are replaced every few minutes, and more than 1,000 subcontracted workers work in a single day, using a "human sea" strategy.
4: Workers bathe before being let go.
5: Swimmers throng on the beach by a plant. 2004
6: The arm of a man who was exposed to radiation in the Tokai Village JCO Criticality Accident. 2009
7: Six years after burial, a body was exhumed to be placed in an urn, but the lungs and surrounding area were found not to have decayed. During an autopsy, they found 1000X more radiation than normal. 1988
8/9  A man uses a low-frequency therapy device and meditation to help with back and leg pain. 1978
10: A forest of leaky pipes directly connected to the core. 1977
