The Misunderstood Art of Masahisa Fukase, the Incurable Egoist. 

Almost by supernatural compulsion Masahisa sought to capture the "multilayered nature of existence," capturing his private life and emotions in everything, even if not apparent his photos are self portraits, and he spent decades searching for the true meaning behind his compulsion.

Born 1934, Masahisa would shoot a camera before he could read or write. At three he was tasked with with washing prints at his father's photo studio, which one day he would take over. This birthed his complex relationship with photography.

In 1960 he married Yukiyo, who he photographed frequently, even during a pregnancy that sadly was stillborn. A year later she would become pregnant again but would disappear without a goodbye. 
To mirror the inner darkness he felt he would photograph machinery and would hire a model named Yōko Wanibe to pose. In 1964 they married and he would photograph her nonstop.
Eventually his photos of Yōko were chosen for an exhibition and at this point the couple saw themselves within "a paradox of being together solely for the sake of photography" so they decided to divorce but remained friends.

While together, Yōko said that she felt moments of “suffocating dullness interspersed by violent and near suicidal flashes of excitement. He has only seen me through the lens of a camera, never without. And in fact what he saw through the lens was not me, but nothing other than himself.” 

After they split Masahisa became troubled by his compulsion. In his hometown he took a series of photos of ravens, a project he worked on for seven years, saying, "I myself have become a raven." He would also start photographing a kitten he was gifted named Sasuke hoping to capture a reflection of his adoration.
During the 80s he remarried and became more secure. 
In 1992 he fell down the stairs of his favorite bar and would fall into a coma. After this his ex wife Yōko would visit him bimonthly until his death in 2012. It is unknown if he ever felt her presence. 
Today, Yōko is possibly the biggest supporter and endorser of his work and seeks to keep his memory alive. 

Pics all scanned by me or via his archive.
