Huey Long 🇺🇸 Kingfish and Dictator of Louisiana.
Huey Long ruled Louisiana from 1928 until 1935. A Southern strongman, he delivered unprecedented progress in his state during the Great Depression. Louisiana was a desperately undeveloped swampland. The poorest state in the US, its dismal conditions were mired by classism & racism, disenfranchising the rural majority which suffered the worst illiteracy & mortality rates in the country. The New Orleans elite upheld the misery via a statewide corruption network of police & officials. Long, addressing the poverty & disparity, was elected Governor in 1928.

 Long consolidated power over Louisiana: he fired all of his opposition & exerted authority through intimidation to strong-arm his way past the legislative process. He espoused demagogic populism that attacked powerful institutions & the ruling class to rally the downtrodden. Unique among Southern politicians, he avoided racism & proclaimed support for White+Black workers alike even initially faking support of the KKK, then attacking them. Casinos & brothels were shut down with military force. Long invigorated his state amidst the national malaise. He restructured the economy of Louisiana along his Share our Wealth program; he implemented ambitious wealth distribution reforms to generate state funds by taxing the rich & corporations. He launched aggressive infrastructure campaigns to develop his state, creating thousands of jobs, 111 bridges, 9,700 miles of road, and expanded the highway system from 331 to 2,300 miles. Social programs were introduced. Labor conditions improved. Hospitals were inaugurated alongside charity clinics for the poor; 70% of the population was immцnized & mortality rates fell. Public education improved; he built schools across the state & provided free textbooks to students, bolstering enrollment by 20% which shrank illiteracy from 10% to 7% among Whites & 38% to 23% among Blacks. Long fostered development & growth in Louisiana while the rest of the US trudged through the Great Depression. As Senator, Long announced his presidential campaign for 1936 - but was assassinated, his last words: 
"God, don't let me die! I have so much to do!"
