Blaze Foley, (December 18, 1949 – February 1, 1989), was an American folk and country singer known for his activity in the Austin Texas country scene in the late 70s and early 80s. 

Born Michael David Fuller in Malvern, Arkansas on December 18, 1949. Blaze mostly grew up in San Antonio Texas where he first got active in music with a family gospel group. During his childhood, he contracted polio which he survived. Still, it led to him having one leg shorter than the other, causing his considerable stature to limp significantly during his adulthood. 

In the mid-70s he traveled with his girlfriend around the country (at one point they lived in a treehouse- see forth photo) while performing at bars until he settled in Austin Texas where he wanted to practice his songwriting and become part of the newly active local music scene. 

Eventually, the pressure of his career path began to weigh down on him and he took to drinking, a habit that led to him losing his girlfriend and becoming homeless, with nothing but his guitar and his own clothes, which he often patched with duct tape, earning him the nickname 'the duct tape Messiah'. (See the duct tape on the first photo of him with Townes Van Zandt) 

Some time in the early 80s Blaze Foley met Townes Van Zandt who was ultimately a bad influence on him, accelerating Blaze's drinking habit and recklessness. 

In 1984 he released his first commercial album and the mastertapes were shortly confiscated by the FBI due to the label owners being affiliated with organized crime. 

Blaze lived in poverty right up until his murder on Feburary 1st, 1989, when he was shot while protecting a friend's life from his drunkard son. At points he would jump between living in a car, in the park, and on the couches of his country musician friends and producers. 

His legacy is mostly remembered through his song 'Clay Pigeons', which has been covered by musicians like John Prine and Michael Cera, but his impact on those who lived during the early days of the Austin country music scene will never be lifted.
