Yana Stanislavovna "Yanka" Dyagileva (4 September 1966 –  May 1991) was a Russian singer-songwriter, poet, and one of the de facto leaders of Russia's underground punk scene.
Yanka was born in Novosibirsk, USSR, the daughter of two engineers of Ukrainian, Russian, and Czech origin. 
While in school she began practiced piano before switching to guitar, she started writing poems and performing her songs at talent shows not long after, although all her poems written before 1985 appear to be lost or forgotten.
In 1984 she dropped out of University and began playing with the punk band Amigo, and in December of 1985 she moved to Leningrad where she met fellow poet and musician Alexander Bashlachev. 
Much to her dispair, her mother, who was her closest friend, died of cancer the following October.
In April of 1987 Yanka joined Grazhdanskaya Oborona after meeting it's leader, Egor Letov. For two years she wrote music for and performed with his band. It's said, that her songwriting and managerial work helped build what became the Siberian punk underground.
In February 1988 her close friend Alexander Bashlachev committed suicide by throwing himself out of his apartment window on the 9th floor of a building in Leningrad. This affected her strongly, as did the death of her mother, and was said to have placed her deeper into a bout of depression that she could never claw herself out of.
Her first two albums were recorded during this time, and she also had her first and possibly final live concert during this period, as her last known public appearance was in November of of 1990, although she was scheduled to perform a few times in February it isn't even known if these even took place. 
In the evening of May 9th 1991 Yanka left her family's countryside home in Novosibirsk and never came back. Eight days later a fisherman on the Inya river found her body. It is assumed she died some forty kilometers upstream, her body was buried two days later. 
The official cause of death is a banal suicide, but friends and family have fervently debated this for years. 

To this day Yanka is considered to be one of Russia's greatest and most influential songwriter and poets
