Theodore John Kaczynski ( born May 22, 1942), also known as the Unabomber, is an American philosopher, domestic terrorist, and former Mathematics Professor.
Kaczynski was born in Chicago, Illinois, to working-class parents of Polish descent, he has one younger brother, David, who was born in 1949.
Ted was a happy infant until he was hospitalized due to severe hives and afterward, he was notably almost emotionless for months. During his stay in the hospital, he even recoiled from being a shown a photograph of himself. He also seemed to hold a strong affinity towards animals kept in cages or otherwise held in captivity. 
in 1952 the family moved to suburban Evergreen Park, Illinois. Ted soon scored 167 on an IQ test, and his teachers made him skip the 6th grade. Later, he described this as a pivotal event, as previously he was sociable with his classmates but now he didn't fit in with older children, who bullied him.
At 15 he graduated high school and was pushed into Harvard before he even had a driver's license. 
In his second year of Harvard he was subjected to a study that has been described as a "purposely brutalizing psychological experiment" lead by psychologist Henry Murray. 
He graduated in 1962 and enrolled in the University of Michigan the same year.
He graduated with a Doctorate in Mathematics in 1967, and became an assistant professor as well.
In 1966 for several weeks he experiences intense sexual fantasies about wanting to become a woman and decided to undergo gender transition surgery. He met with a psychiatrist but then changed his mind at the last minute. Enraged he thought about killing the psychiatrist and other people whom he hated. Kaczynski later said: "I felt disgusted about what my uncontrolled sexual cravings had almost led me to do. And I felt humiliated, and I violently hated the psychiatrist. Just then there came a major turning point in my life. Like a Phoenix, I burst from the ashes of my despair to a glorious new hope."
Without explanation, he quit his job as a professor in 1969.
(Continued in comments)
