The Dogon are an African tribe located mainly in the Bandiagara and Douentza districts of Mali, West Africa. The tribe lives along a 200 kilometre stretch of escarpment called the Cliffs of Bandiagara. In which they have managed to use to fashion some spectacular dwellings for themselves.

In the early 20th Century two French anthropologists began to study their lifestyle. In 1930, after they had been living with the tribe for 15 years, four Dogon Priests invited the men to share in the tribes most important and secret tradition.

The tale was the secret Dogon creation myths about their sacred star which they named as Po-Tolo. The star to which they were referring is Sirius which located some 8.6 light years from earth. Sirius is also the brightest star in the night sky.

The Dogon told the Anthropologists that Sirius was the home of the Gods who had made them who they are. They told them that Sirius is the smallest and heaviest thing there is and that it was white in color. They said that it had a companion star, invisible to the human eye but that it moves around Sirius in an elliptical orbit that took 50 years. 

Dogon oral traditions also quite adamantly state that they have known for thousands of years that Jupiter had moons and Saturn had rings around it.

Initially the men did not see the astronomical importance of what they had been told by the tribe and only published the story in an obscure Anthropological journal. However sometime later the information was noticed by several astronomers and deemed worthy of further investigation.

What they discovered was that the Dogon had in fact, accurately described the three principal properties of a white dwarf star: small, heavy and white and had also stated that Sirius is a binary star, both of which we now know the Sirius system to be. They are also correct in their knowledge of its companions’ rotation as Sirius-B orbits Sirius-A every 49.9 to 50 years.

The Dogon people also use a unique calendar that is based on the rotational movements of Sirius B. In fact the entire Dogon Culture is based around the 50 year cycle of Sirius B.
